Popp: No, M-Merle. Come back.
Please...
Just open your eyes!
Come on... You can't die.
You... You can't!
I won't let you...
Not for someone like me.
Wait, Popp's a Mage,
but somehow...
He's able to
use healing energy?
Just like...
Just like a Sage does!
Zaboera: What?
How could this happen?
There's no way that brat
could've been hiding
this much Magical Energy.
I'll put a stop to this.
Nova: [roaring]
You won't interfere
again if I can help it!
She... She's alive.
Her heart's still beating.
I hear it. The poison's
effect is lifting.
She just might survive this.
Leona: It's all thanks
to that healing energy
Popp just unleashed.
It looked like it was even
stronger than my Zing spell...
A Kazing, maybe.
I knew you could do it, Popp.
Popp: Amy; see what you
can do for her now.
Whatever it takes.
Right.
Okay. Let's do this!
You heard him, everybody.
This is for Merle.
You ready?
It's time.
Oh, wow - it's working!
Leona: The circle is complete.
I couldn't have
summoned this light...
without Merle's love.
The truth is, she's been
far braver than I ever was
-without a doubt.
And so, now... I am not
going to let her down!
Finally...
They've done it - they have
all five pillars of light!
Now - watch it shine:
the great Purification Spell.
Now... Kaglimmer!
Killvearn: What is this?
All right... Ready, Popp?
Zoom!
Baduck: It worked...
It worked!
The Dark King's done!
[cheering]
This is it.
And away they go.
Good luck to you, my friends.
They actually pulled it off.
Chiu: [chuckling]
Way to go, mighty Heroes!
I know you'll defeat
the Dark King...
And in the end,
justice will prevail!
[cheering]
Everyone, fall back
and form a line
around the circle
of enchantment.
The enemy forces
should grow weaker
as they approach its power.
It's all up to the
Disciples from here.
Let's give them
the time they need.
Yes, ma'am!
I guess it worked.
Where are we?
If I'm not mistaken,
we've been here before.
It looks like the
Palace's Citadel Gate...
This is where we lost the
last time we faced Vearn.
Someone has been busy.
It was pretty torn
up when we left it.
You guys?
I'm not going to give
any more lame excuses.
I'll do everything I can
to make up for the
trouble I caused you.
Look, Maam.
I know it's a shock...
Y'know, Popp...
He's felt this way a long time
-but didn't know
how to say it.
If you feel the same way
at all, you should tell him.
He's worked so hard to
come all this way...
And part of that was
probably for you, you know.
This... This
is way too much...
I mean, I- I can't deal
with this right now.
I'm not ready!
Hey, uh, Leona...
Maybe it's best if we
all stick together here...
It's the enemy
stronghold, so...
I'll be fine. Seriously, stop
treating me like a princess.
Fine, I get it!
I'm just saying that
I care about you, okay?
Whatever.
We've already wasted
enough time arguing here.
Leona: This place
is dangerous!
Ugh, that's what I'm saying!
Vearn: A Kaglimmer spell, hm?
An ancient gift from the
God of Humanity, no doubt.
These annoying little
pests have managed to
dig up quite an
interesting strategy.
Killvearn: Indeed, they have.
Are you feeling all
right, Your Majesty?
I am experiencing
some effects,
but not nearly enough
to suppress my power.
However, I won't be able to move
Vearn Palace in this state...
and the protective
field has fallen.
It seems that this
enchantment of theirs
is blocking my ability
to control our fortress.
Killvearn: Without the field,
anybody could stroll in here.
I suppose I should
welcome them.
Just a moment...
We have another guest, now.
Ah, yes...
This Aura.
I remember it well.
So, this is his move...
[delighted chuckle]
It's you.
[alarmed gasp]
Dai: What did you do
with my friends?
While you're busy
dealing with me,
I thought my Royal Guard
could keep them occupied.
And what do you want?
It's quite simple.
I only have one wish:
A one-on-one duel
against you...
to settle our quarrel.
A... A duel with me?
Why, you...
Hang on - where am I?
What the... This looks like
the other side of the palace.
Sigma: Exactly, Mage.
I thought it best to bring you
to the tail section for this.
You're not the only one
who can cast Zoom spells.
Popp: You're Sigma...
Hadlar's knight.
I'm glad you
haven't forgotten.
Now, then. Lord Hadlar doesn't
want any interference...
while he takes his
time with the Hero.
So in the meantime,
I shall be dealing with you.
Then... Maam
and the others...
[chuckling]
Much like yourself,
they all have their own
challenge to reckon with.
Hyunckel [thought]: This is
the palace's southeast wing.
Hym: I hope you're
excited, Hyunckel.
Hyunckel: Hym...
I don't know about you,
but I've been looking
forward to this day.
[dismissive scoff]
Well, I hate to
disappoint you, tin man...
but I don't feel a thing.
You call that a comeback?
Hyunckel: Don't waste my time.
You wanna fight? Then try.
Very well, then.
But be careful
what you wish for.
Maam [thought]: It's
the queen, Albinass...
She's the strongest
of Hadlar's Royal Guard.
How unfortunate.
Without your friends,
you don't stand a chance
against me, little girl.
Don't take it personally,
the plan just worked
out best this way.
I hope you enjoy surprises.
I'm not surprised;
It's not hard.
Each of you chose
the opponent
that you'd be the
most likely to overcome.
With the Mirror of Shahal,
Sigma can deflect
Popp's spells;
and Hym has already
fought against Hyunckel,
so he'll know what to expect.
So that leaves you
to tangle with me.
[patronizing chuckle]
Well, those are some
very astute observations.
I'm quite impressed, although
you did make one small error.
You see, aside from the Hero,
the only real threats we
have are Popp and Hyunckel.
My job is to sweep the
leftovers off the board.
I had intended to
kidnap the princess
in case Dai tried to back out,
but that annoying
little creature
got in my way before
I could take her.
What do you mean "creature"?
That's right, Dai.
Now we shall both lay
everything on the line...
and trade blows in a
final showdown, man-to-man.
Leona: Hold it right there!
Not on my watch, mister.
My underlings appear to have
missed one of your friends.
Leona...
Gomechan?!
When we all got hit
with that spell,
he popped out to help
at the last second.
[determined chirp]
I don't know how,
but he stopped the
effect of the enchantment.
I guess we had
a little stowaway
when Popp was Zooming
us all up here.
Pretty sneaky. Thanks a lot.
[loyal chirps]
Anyhow, come on.
This really isn't the
time for some stupid duel.
And Hadlar, that
goes for you, too.
You turned against
King Vearn, didn't you?
Well think about it.
If you fight Dai here, all
you're doing is serving him.
You want to settle
a score? Fine.
But why don't you save
it for a better moment?
Not an option.
I no longer...
have that kind of time.
Dai [thought]:
That's right...
Superior Beings
don't last forever.
It was worth a try, but I
guess he's not backing down.
Fine. I'll help
you take him out.
Dai: Leona,
you'd better get back.
Leona: W-What? No!
What are you talking about?
You don't have to go
along with this, Dai.
Besides,
together we could...
Ow!
[surprised chirps]
Dai, wait...
Dai: I'm sorry.
But... things are
about to get hotter.
So I need you to back away.
Hadlar is already
too far gone to save.
Huh?!
Dai: Superior Beings might
have instant regeneration,
but their power can
only last for so long
before it burns out...
And that means Hadlar's doesn't
have a lot of time left.
Even still,
he's decided to risk
whatever remains of his life
to fight for his honor...
and he's chosen
me as his opponent.
It wouldn't be right
for me to turn him down
and deny him his
one last chance.
Dai: I know we still
have to defeat King Vearn.
I'd rather not fight
- either of them.
But... if I don't
accept this challenge...
What right to call
myself a hero.
So I have to.
I'm sorry about this -
and I'll make it up to you.
Leona [thought]: Wow...
You've gotta love
a man with integrity-
even if he's an idiot.
He sure grew up fast.
Hadlar?
If it's really what you want,
I'll take you on...
with everything I've got.
Thank you, Dai.
Feel free to enjoy
the show, King Vearn.
This glorious battle shall
mark the end of my days.
Understand...
that if any of your
forces intervene,
you have my word
it will cost you
even more than
you can imagine.
As you wish, Lord Hadlar.
Go ahead and fight to
your heart's content.
May you meet your
end with no regrets.
All right.
What if the spell is
giving me the upper hand?
You mean the Kaglimmer spell?
I can't deny that I feel
some of its effects,
but for a being who is
as mighty as I am...
[roaring]
So, as you can see...
it won't be a problem.
Dai: Alright, then.
I guess that means the same
thing for King Vearn, as well.
And right you are.
The only thing being stalled by
that spell is the palace itself.
Vearn's Magic Power
remains as strong as ever...
Sorry to disappoint.
Oh, no. See, I'm
actually relieved.
I'd hate for you to not get
a fair chance at revenge.
It wouldn't feel right.
Well, how very thoughtful...
The little Hero...
Here it comes.
Leona: We... we should probably
get a little further back.
C'mon!
Gomechan: [worried chirp]
[charging roar]
[roaring punch]
[alarmed cry]
And the battle begins...
A final duel between
Lord Hadlar and the Hero.
Wait, "final"?
Yes, that's right.
Our Dark Lord is beyond the help
of any Healing Spell's power.
His Superior form
will only decay.
This will be his final wish;
to use what remains of
his abilities in combat.
One last stand against your
bothersome little leader...
a chance to defeat his rival.
Hadlar: I've made my decision.
My body won't hold up
for much longer.
So I shall face
the Hero one last time.
With luck, I'll triumph.
No... Y- You don't mean...
I have no desire to fight
for the Dark King anymore...
But I cannot side with
the Disciples of Avan either.
After all,
I'm the one who took
what was most
precious from them,
and we're still sworn enemies.
Therefore, I find myself
with only one path to take.
To do battle with
the only adversary
who compels me to go on,
and leave my final
mark on his life.
But that adversary
is not the Dark King.
No, but... My lord!
Albinass, come now.
Why are you hesitating?
This is what we
were made to do.
We must seek vengeance,
or else we'll be
nothing but failures...
and Block and Fenbren
will have died in vain.
Hym: If we don't
vanquish our rivals
and bring honor
to the Royal Guard
how will we ever face
our fallen comrades
when we meet them
in the afterlife?
We go down in
a blaze of glory!
First we'll defeat the Heroes,
and then we strike King Vearn.
We'll show all
of them our fury!
Hadlar: You know, Hym...
Of all my creations,
I think you
resemble me the most.
[proud chuckle]
Hadlar: [snarling]
[roaring]
[pained grunts]
Both: [roaring]
Maam: Then... Then you,
Hym and Sigma...
you're all
sacrificing yourselves
in order to grant
Hadlar his final wish?
You'd really give up
everything for his glory?
Albinass, let's stop.
There's no reason for
us to fight.
No reason?
Exactly. The way you all
feel about Lord Hadlar...
it doesn't seem all that
different from how we Disciples
feel about our friends.
You and I may be
on different sides,
but it won't do any good
to destroy each other...
No matter who wins this
fight, we both lose.
So, please don't do this.
If the Royal Guard
care about your leader
like you say,
this isn't the answer.
Not when we have
a common enemy.
If we joined forces, King Vearn
wouldn't stand a chance...
We'd help.
Maam? I'm so glad to
hear you feel that way.
That's a relief.
I'm glad to know
that you're...
the kind of naive simpleton
that I despise.
Now I can kill you
without any mercy!
Albinass: Needle Thousand!
[pained cry]
Narrator: While
the other Disciples
battle the Royal Guard,
the duel between Dragon Knight
and Dark Lord continues.
Meanwhile, Maam faces
a relentless onslaught
from Albinass,
whose loyalty to
Hadlar fuels her blows.
Soon Maam finds herself
backed into a corner,
and her title as a Warrior
Master will be put to the test
-but can she convince
Albinass to lay down her arms?
Find out on
the next episode of
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Clash of Love".